Extend Apps docuentation (#131)
mirumee/saleor-docs: docs/developer/extending/apps.mdx

---
title: Writing Apps for Saleor
sidebar_label: Apps
---

import Chart from "@site/components/Chart";

## Key Concepts

### Architecture

> Saleor Apps are separate applications that use GraphQL to talk to a Saleor server and that can receive webhooks with event notifications from Saleor.

Author: @patrys  What do you think?

> Saleor Apps are separate applications that use GraphQL to talk to a Saleor server and that can receive webhooks with event notifications from Saleor.

Reviewer: We do want to capitalize it as we are referring to Saleor Apps, not just any random applications.

| `FULFILLMENT_CREATED`       | A new fulfillment is created.                                                                                                    |
| `PRODUCT_CREATED`           | A new product is created.                                                                                                        |

Webhooks' payloads are sent in `POST` requests.

### Type of Apps
- `local`: create a custom App instance, assign explicitly provided permissions. 
The app is fully manageable from dashboard. You can change assigned permissions, add webhooks, or authentication token. 
`local` app can be useful for creating integration with some services which will parse the webhook payload.  
:::note
If you're building a single service dedicated only to your shop this solution will handle all your needs.
:::

- `third-party`: install App in Saleor and proceed with all required steps to prepare the communication channel for App.  
Installation is fully automated.  Saleor uses a defined App manifest to gather all required information.  

> If there are no errors during the installation, App gets the possibility to attach to Saleor over the iframe, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If there are no errors during the installation, App gets the possibility to attach to Saleor Dashboard over the iframe, 
```

communicate with Saleor over API and use webhooks to subscribe for the given events.
:::note
If you're building an App that will be published in the marketplace, then this solution is dedicated to you. 
:::

## Creating and installing Apps from the command line

Saleor provides commands that can be used to create/install an App from the command line.

> ### `create_app`
> 
> Creates a `local` App with explicitly provided permissions.

Reviewer 2: Little suggestion to reorganize it:

```suggestion
### Creating local apps

To create a local app use the `create_app` command.
```

Arguments:

- `<name>`: the name of the App, required.
- `--permission <PERM>`: assign permission `PERM` to the App. This argument can be repeated to specify multiple permissions.
- `--activate`: immediately activate the new App.
- `--target-url <URL>`: URL to send the API auth token to once installation is complete.

> **Example:** The following command will create an App named "Order App" that can access users and orders:
>
> ```shell

> > python manage.py create_app "Order App" \

Reviewer 2: What is more common, using the target URL or not? I think it would be useful if this example showed how to use `--target-url`. Then you would put the "If the target URL is provided" part right after this example to explain it. The "If the target URL is not specified" part would go later.

>    --permission MANAGE_USERS \
>    --permission MANAGE_ORDERS
> ```

If the target URL is not specified, the command will output an API auth token in the following format:

```shell
{"auth_token": "new-app-token"}
```

If the target URL is provided, Saleor will POST the API auth token, in the same JSON format, to the provided URL:

<Chart
  definition={`
  sequenceDiagram
    Saleor ->> App: POST /token/target/url/<br>{"auth_token": "new-app-token"}
    App -->> Saleor: HTTP 200 OK
`}
/>

> ### `install_app`
> 
> Installs a `third-party` App based on its manifest URL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Installing third-party apps

To install a third-party app use the `install_app` command.
```

| `ORDER_CANCELLED`           | An order is cancelled.                                                                                                           |
| `ORDER_FULFILLED`           | An order is fulfilled.                                                                                                           |
| `FULFILLMENT_CREATED`       | A new fulfillment is created.                                                                                                    |
| `PRODUCT_CREATED`           | A new product is created.                                                                                                        |

Webhooks' payloads are sent in `POST` requests.

### Difference between `create` and `install`
- `create`: create a custom App instance, assign explicitly provided permissions. 
The app is fully manageable. You can change assigned permissions, add webhooks, or auth_token. 
`create` can be useful for creating integration with some services which will parse the webhook payload.
- `install`: create App instance and prepare communication channel. 
This approach uses a defined App manifest to prepare all required objects. 

> This approach is recommended for creating integration with a service dedicated to Saleor. 

Reviewer 2: What is "a service dedicated to Saleor."? How is it different from the apps from the "create" example? TBH I don't understand the difference from reading this paragraph. From what I remember, in code we have two types of apps: local and third-party. Maybe we should explain the difference using these terms? I mean something like this:

## Types of apps in Saleor:
- local - definition, examples
- third-party - definition, examples

## Creating local apps
[...]

## Installing third-party apps
[...]

Probably an explanation of app types should be moved more to the top, maybe after "Architecture" part? It feels like it is mixed in the document right now.

Reviewer 2: I think readers of this page will be people who either want to create and manage local apps or those who just want to install a third-party app. It should be easy for both groups to find the commands or API they need to use to do their job.

> Installed App can be activated, deactivated, deleted but cannot be modified by using a mutation dedicated to `create` actions. 

Reviewer 2: "cannot be modified by using a mutation dedicated to `create` actions." - Why? Can we name these?

  "dataPrivacy": "Lorem ipsum",
  "dataPrivacyUrl": "http://localhost:3000/app-data-privacy",

>   "homepageOnMarketUrl": "",

Reviewer: Why such a weird name?
